aggregating-minmax/flinksql/README.md, before:

<!-- title: How to compute the minimum or maximum value of a field with Flink SQL -->
<!-- description: In this tutorial, learn how to compute the minimum or maximum value of a field with Flink SQL, with step-by-step instructions and supporting code. -->

# How to compute the minimum or maximum value of a field with Flink SQL

Suppose you have a topic with events that represent ticket sales of movies. In this tutorial, we'll use Flink SQL to
calculate the maximum and minimum revenue of movies by year.

## Setup

Let's assume the following DDL for our base `movie_sales` table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE movie_sales (
    id INT,
    title STRING,
    release_year INT,
    total_sales INT
);
```

## Compute min/max aggregation

Given the `movie_sales` table definition above, we can figure out the minimum and maximum movie revenue per
year with the following aggregation:

```sql
SELECT
    release_year,
    MIN(total_sales) AS min_total_sales,
    MAX(total_sales) AS max_total_sales
FROM movie_sales
GROUP BY release_year;
```

## Running the example

You can run the example backing this tutorial in one of three ways: a Flink Table API-based JUnit test, locally with the Flink SQL Client 
against Flink and Kafka running in Docker, or with Confluent Cloud.

<details>
  <summary>Flink Table API-based test</summary>

  #### Prerequisites

  * Java 17, e.g., follow the OpenJDK installation instructions [here](https://openjdk.org/install/) if you don't have Java. 
  * Docker running via [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) or [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

  #### Run the test

Run the following command to execute [FlinkSqlAggregatingMinMaxTest#testMinMax](src/test/java/io/confluent/developer/FlinkSqlAggregatingMinMaxTest.java):

  ```plaintext
  ./gradlew clean :aggregating-minmax:flinksql:test
  ```

  The test starts Kafka and Schema Registry with [Testcontainers](https://testcontainers.com/), runs the Flink SQL commands
  above against a local Flink `StreamExecutionEnvironment`, and ensures that the aggregation results are what we expect.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Flink SQL Client CLI</summary>

  #### Prerequisites

  * Docker running via [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) or [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
  * [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/). Ensure that the command `docker compose version` succeeds.

  #### Run the commands

  First, start Flink and Kafka:

  ```shell
  docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose-flinksql.yml up -d
  ```

  Next, open the Flink SQL Client CLI:

  ```shell
  docker exec -it flink-sql-client sql-client.sh
  ```

  Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `movie_sales` table backed by Kafka running in Docker, populate it with
  test data, and run the aggregating min/max query.

  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE movie_sales (
      id INT,
      title STRING,
      release_year INT,
      total_sales INT
  ) WITH (
      'connector' = 'kafka',
      'topic' = 'movie-sales',
      'properties.bootstrap.servers' = 'broker:9092',
      'scan.startup.mode' = 'earliest-offset',
      'key.format' = 'raw',
      'key.fields' = 'id',
      'value.format' = 'avro-confluent',
      'value.avro-confluent.url' = 'http://schema-registry:8081',
      'value.fields-include' = 'EXCEPT_KEY'
  );

  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO movie_sales VALUES
      (0, 'Avengers: Endgame', 2019, 856980506),
      (1, 'Captain Marvel', 2019, 426829839),
      (2, 'Toy Story 4', 2019, 401486230),
      (3, 'The Lion King', 2019, 385082142),
      (4, 'Black Panther', 2018, 700059566),
      (5, 'Avengers: Infinity War', 2018, 678815482),
      (6, 'Deadpool 2', 2018, 324512774),
      (7, 'Beauty and the Beast', 2017, 517218368),
      (8, 'Wonder Woman', 2017, 412563408),
      (9, 'Star Wars Ep. VIII: The Last Jedi', 2017, 517218368);
  ```

  ```sql
  SELECT
      release_year,
      MIN(total_sales) AS min_total_sales,
      MAX(total_sales) AS max_total_sales
  FROM movie_sales
  GROUP BY release_year;
  ```

  The query output should look like this:

  ```plaintext
   release_year min_total_sales max_total_sales
           2017       412563408       517218368
           2019       385082142       856980506
           2018       324512774       700059566
  ```

  When you are finished, clean up the containers used for this tutorial by running:

  ```shell
  docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose-flinksql.yml down
  ```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Confluent Cloud</summary>

  #### Prerequisites

  * A [Confluent Cloud](https://confluent.cloud/signup) account
  * A Flink compute pool created in Confluent Cloud. Follow [this](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/flink/get-started/quick-start-cloud-console.html) quick start to create one.

  #### Run the commands

  In the Confluent Cloud Console, navigate to your environment and then click the `Open SQL Workspace` button for the compute
  pool that you have created.

  Select the default catalog (Confluent Cloud environment) and database (Kafka cluster) to use with the dropdowns at the top right.

  Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `movie_sales` table, populate it with test data, and run the aggregating min/max query.

  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE movie_sales (
      id INT,
      title STRING,
      release_year INT,
      total_sales INT
  );
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO movie_sales VALUES
      (0, 'Avengers: Endgame', 2019, 856980506),
      (1, 'Captain Marvel', 2019, 426829839),
      (2, 'Toy Story 4', 2019, 401486230),
      (3, 'The Lion King', 2019, 385082142),
      (4, 'Black Panther', 2018, 700059566),
      (5, 'Avengers: Infinity War', 2018, 678815482),
      (6, 'Deadpool 2', 2018, 324512774),
      (7, 'Beauty and the Beast', 2017, 517218368),
      (8, 'Wonder Woman', 2017, 412563408),
      (9, 'Star Wars Ep. VIII: The Last Jedi', 2017, 517218368);
  ```

  ```sql
  SELECT
      release_year,
      MIN(total_sales) AS min_total_sales,
      MAX(total_sales) AS max_total_sales
  FROM movie_sales
  GROUP BY release_year;
  ```

  The query output should look like this:

  ![Query output](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/confluentinc/tutorials/master/aggregating-minmax/flinksql/img/query-output.png)

</details>

Commit message:

Flink SQL clone instructions (#7)
* fix: add repo clone instructions to Flink tutorials

* fix: improve header font in Flink SQL run instructions

aggregating-minmax/flinksql/README.md, after:

<!-- title: How to compute the minimum or maximum value of a field with Flink SQL -->
<!-- description: In this tutorial, learn how to compute the minimum or maximum value of a field with Flink SQL, with step-by-step instructions and supporting code. -->

# How to compute the minimum or maximum value of a field with Flink SQL

Suppose you have a topic with events that represent ticket sales of movies. In this tutorial, we'll use Flink SQL to
calculate the maximum and minimum revenue of movies by year.

## Setup

Let's assume the following DDL for our base `movie_sales` table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE movie_sales (
    id INT,
    title STRING,
    release_year INT,
    total_sales INT
);
```

## Compute min/max aggregation

Given the `movie_sales` table definition above, we can figure out the minimum and maximum movie revenue per
year with the following aggregation:

```sql
SELECT
    release_year,
    MIN(total_sales) AS min_total_sales,
    MAX(total_sales) AS max_total_sales
FROM movie_sales
GROUP BY release_year;
```

## Running the example

You can run the example backing this tutorial in one of three ways: a Flink Table API-based JUnit test, locally with the Flink SQL Client 
against Flink and Kafka running in Docker, or with Confluent Cloud.

<details>
  <summary>Flink Table API-based test</summary>

  ### Prerequisites

  * Java 17, e.g., follow the OpenJDK installation instructions [here](https://openjdk.org/install/) if you don't have Java. 
  * Docker running via [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) or [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

  ### Run the test

  Clone the `confluentinc/tutorials` GitHub repository (if you haven't already) and navigate to the `tutorials` directory:

  ```shell
  git clone git@github.com:confluentinc/tutorials.git
  cd tutorials
  ```

  Run the following command to execute [FlinkSqlAggregatingMinMaxTest#testMinMax](src/test/java/io/confluent/developer/FlinkSqlAggregatingMinMaxTest.java):

  ```plaintext
  ./gradlew clean :aggregating-minmax:flinksql:test
  ```

  The test starts Kafka and Schema Registry with [Testcontainers](https://testcontainers.com/), runs the Flink SQL commands
  above against a local Flink `StreamExecutionEnvironment`, and ensures that the aggregation results are what we expect.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Flink SQL Client CLI</summary>

  ### Prerequisites

  * Docker running via [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) or [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
  * [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/). Ensure that the command `docker compose version` succeeds.

  ### Run the commands

  Clone the `confluentinc/tutorials` GitHub repository (if you haven't already) and navigate to the `tutorials` directory:

  ```shell
  git clone git@github.com:confluentinc/tutorials.git
  cd tutorials
  ```

  Start Flink and Kafka:

  ```shell
  docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose-flinksql.yml up -d
  ```

  Next, open the Flink SQL Client CLI:

  ```shell
  docker exec -it flink-sql-client sql-client.sh
  ```

  Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `movie_sales` table backed by Kafka running in Docker, populate it with
  test data, and run the aggregating min/max query.

  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE movie_sales (
      id INT,
      title STRING,
      release_year INT,
      total_sales INT
  ) WITH (
      'connector' = 'kafka',
      'topic' = 'movie-sales',
      'properties.bootstrap.servers' = 'broker:9092',
      'scan.startup.mode' = 'earliest-offset',
      'key.format' = 'raw',
      'key.fields' = 'id',
      'value.format' = 'avro-confluent',
      'value.avro-confluent.url' = 'http://schema-registry:8081',
      'value.fields-include' = 'EXCEPT_KEY'
  );

  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO movie_sales VALUES
      (0, 'Avengers: Endgame', 2019, 856980506),
      (1, 'Captain Marvel', 2019, 426829839),
      (2, 'Toy Story 4', 2019, 401486230),
      (3, 'The Lion King', 2019, 385082142),
      (4, 'Black Panther', 2018, 700059566),
      (5, 'Avengers: Infinity War', 2018, 678815482),
      (6, 'Deadpool 2', 2018, 324512774),
      (7, 'Beauty and the Beast', 2017, 517218368),
      (8, 'Wonder Woman', 2017, 412563408),
      (9, 'Star Wars Ep. VIII: The Last Jedi', 2017, 517218368);
  ```

  ```sql
  SELECT
      release_year,
      MIN(total_sales) AS min_total_sales,
      MAX(total_sales) AS max_total_sales
  FROM movie_sales
  GROUP BY release_year;
  ```

  The query output should look like this:

  ```plaintext
   release_year min_total_sales max_total_sales
           2017       412563408       517218368
           2019       385082142       856980506
           2018       324512774       700059566
  ```

  When you are finished, clean up the containers used for this tutorial by running:

  ```shell
  docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose-flinksql.yml down
  ```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Confluent Cloud</summary>

  ### Prerequisites

  * A [Confluent Cloud](https://confluent.cloud/signup) account
  * A Flink compute pool created in Confluent Cloud. Follow [this](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/flink/get-started/quick-start-cloud-console.html) quick start to create one.

  ### Run the commands

  In the Confluent Cloud Console, navigate to your environment and then click the `Open SQL Workspace` button for the compute
  pool that you have created.

  Select the default catalog (Confluent Cloud environment) and database (Kafka cluster) to use with the dropdowns at the top right.

  Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `movie_sales` table, populate it with test data, and run the aggregating min/max query.

  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE movie_sales (
      id INT,
      title STRING,
      release_year INT,
      total_sales INT
  );
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO movie_sales VALUES
      (0, 'Avengers: Endgame', 2019, 856980506),
      (1, 'Captain Marvel', 2019, 426829839),
      (2, 'Toy Story 4', 2019, 401486230),
      (3, 'The Lion King', 2019, 385082142),
      (4, 'Black Panther', 2018, 700059566),
      (5, 'Avengers: Infinity War', 2018, 678815482),
      (6, 'Deadpool 2', 2018, 324512774),
      (7, 'Beauty and the Beast', 2017, 517218368),
      (8, 'Wonder Woman', 2017, 412563408),
      (9, 'Star Wars Ep. VIII: The Last Jedi', 2017, 517218368);
  ```

  ```sql
  SELECT
      release_year,
      MIN(total_sales) AS min_total_sales,
      MAX(total_sales) AS max_total_sales
  FROM movie_sales
  GROUP BY release_year;
  ```

  The query output should look like this:

  ![Query output](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/confluentinc/tutorials/master/aggregating-minmax/flinksql/img/query-output.png)

</details>
