tumbling-windows/flinksql/README.md, before:

<!-- title: How to aggregate over tumbling windows with Flink SQL -->
<!-- description: In this tutorial, learn how to aggregate over tumbling windows with Flink SQL, with step-by-step instructions and supporting code. -->

# How to aggregate over tumbling windows with Flink SQL

Suppose you have time series events in a Kafka topic and wish to calculate statistics on the events grouped into 
fixed-size, non-overlapping, contiguous time intervals called *tumbling windows*. For example, let's say you have a topic
with events that represent movie ratings from viewers over time. In this tutorial, we'll use Flink SQL to count the 
total number of ratings that each movie has received and calculate the average rating over tumbling windows.

## Setup

Because windowed aggregations are calculated on a base table, let's assume the following DDL for our base `ratings` table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE ratings (
    rating_id INT,
    title STRING,
    release_year INT,
    rating DOUBLE,
    ts TIMESTAMP(3),
    -- declare ts as event time attribute and use strictly ascending timestamp watermark strategy
    WATERMARK FOR ts AS ts
);
```

The timestamp is an important attribute since we’ll be modeling the number of ratings that each movie receives over time.
Also, because we are going to aggregate over time windows, we must define a watermark strategy. In this case, we use
strictly ascending timestamps, i.e., any row with a timestamp that is less than or equal to the latest observed event
timestamp is considered late and ignored.

## Compute windowed aggregation

Given the `ratings` table definition above, let’s figure out the rating count and average rating in tumbling 6-hour
intervals using a windowing table-valued function (TVF).

```sql
SELECT title,
    COUNT(*) AS rating_count,
    AVG(rating) AS avg_rating,
    window_start,
    window_end
FROM TABLE(TUMBLE(TABLE ratings, DESCRIPTOR(ts), INTERVAL '6' HOURS))
GROUP BY title, window_start, window_end;
```

## Running the example

You can run the example backing this tutorial in one of three ways: a Flink Table API-based JUnit test, locally with the Flink SQL Client 
against Flink and Kafka running in Docker, or with Confluent Cloud.

<details>
  <summary>Flink Table API-based test</summary>

  #### Prerequisites

  * Java 17, e.g., follow the OpenJDK installation instructions [here](https://openjdk.org/install/) if you don't have Java. 
  * Docker running via [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) or [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

  #### Run the test

Run the following command to execute [FlinkSqlTumblingWindowTest#testTumblingWindows](src/test/java/io/confluent/developer/FlinkSqlTumblingWindowTest.java):

  ```plaintext
  ./gradlew clean :tumbling-windows:flinksql:test
  ```

  The test starts Kafka and Schema Registry with [Testcontainers](https://testcontainers.com/), runs the Flink SQL commands
  above against a local Flink `StreamExecutionEnvironment`, and ensures that tumbling window query results are what we expect.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Flink SQL Client CLI</summary>

  #### Prerequisites

  * Docker running via [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) or [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
  * [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/). Ensure that the command `docker compose version` succeeds.

  #### Run the commands

  First, start Flink and Kafka:

  ```shell
  docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose-flinksql.yml up -d
  ```

  Next, open the Flink SQL Client CLI:

  ```shell
  docker exec -it flink-sql-client sql-client.sh
  ```

  Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `ratings` table backed by Kafka running in Docker, populate it with
  test data, and run the tumbling windows query.

  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE ratings (
      rating_id INT,
      title STRING,
      release_year INT,
      rating DOUBLE,
      ts TIMESTAMP(3),
      -- declare ts as event time attribute and use strictly ascending timestamp watermark strategy
      WATERMARK FOR ts AS ts
  ) WITH (
      'connector' = 'kafka',
      'topic' = 'ratings',
      'properties.bootstrap.servers' = 'broker:9092',
      'scan.startup.mode' = 'earliest-offset',
      'key.format' = 'raw',
      'key.fields' = 'rating_id',
      'value.format' = 'avro-confluent',
      'value.avro-confluent.url' = 'http://schema-registry:8081',
      'value.fields-include' = 'EXCEPT_KEY'
  );
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO ratings VALUES
      (0, 'Die Hard', 1998, 8.2, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 01:00:00')),
      (1, 'The Big Lebowski', 1998, 4.2, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 02:00:00')),
      (2, 'Die Hard', 1998, 4.5, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 05:00:00')),
      (3, 'The Big Lebowski', 1998, 9.9, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 06:30:00')),
      (4, 'Die Hard', 1998, 5.1, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 07:00:00')),
      (5, 'Tree of Life', 2011, 5.6, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 08:00:00')),
      (6, 'Tree of Life', 2011, 4.9, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 09:00:00')),
      (7, 'A Walk in the Clouds', 1995, 3.6, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 12:00:00')),
      (8, 'A Walk in the Clouds', 1995, 6.0, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 15:00:00')),
      (9, 'Super Mario Bros.', 1993, 3.5, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 18:30:00')),
      (10, 'A Walk in the Clouds', 1995, 4.6, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-10 01:00:00'));
  ```

  ```sql
  SELECT title,
      COUNT(*) AS rating_count,
      AVG(rating) AS avg_rating,
      window_start,
      window_end
  FROM TABLE(TUMBLE(TABLE ratings, DESCRIPTOR(ts), INTERVAL '6' HOURS))
  GROUP BY title, window_start, window_end;
  ```

  The query output should look like this:

  ```plaintext
                            title         rating_count                     avg_rating            window_start              window_end
                         Die Hard                    2                           6.35 2023-07-09 00:00:00.000 2023-07-09 06:00:00.000
                 The Big Lebowski                    1                            4.2 2023-07-09 00:00:00.000 2023-07-09 06:00:00.000
                         Die Hard                    1                            5.1 2023-07-09 06:00:00.000 2023-07-09 12:00:00.000
                     Tree of Life                    2                           5.25 2023-07-09 06:00:00.000 2023-07-09 12:00:00.000
                 The Big Lebowski                    1                            9.9 2023-07-09 06:00:00.000 2023-07-09 12:00:00.000
             A Walk in the Clouds                    2                            4.8 2023-07-09 12:00:00.000 2023-07-09 18:00:00.000
                Super Mario Bros.                    1                            3.5 2023-07-09 18:00:00.000 2023-07-10 00:00:00.000
  ```

  When you are finished, clean up the containers used for this tutorial by running:

  ```shell
  docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose-flinksql.yml down
  ```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Confluent Cloud</summary>

  #### Prerequisites

  * A [Confluent Cloud](https://confluent.cloud/signup) account
  * A Flink compute pool created in Confluent Cloud. Follow [this](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/flink/get-started/quick-start-cloud-console.html) quick start to create one.

  #### Run the commands

  In the Confluent Cloud Console, navigate to your environment and then click the `Open SQL Workspace` button for the compute
  pool that you have created.

  Select the default catalog (Confluent Cloud environment) and database (Kafka cluster) to use with the dropdowns at the top right.

  Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `ratings` table, populate it with test data, and run the tumbling windows query.

  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE ratings (
      rating_id INT,
      title STRING,
      release_year INT,
      rating DOUBLE,
      ts TIMESTAMP(3),
      -- declare ts as event time attribute and use strictly ascending timestamp watermark strategy
      WATERMARK FOR ts AS ts
  );
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO ratings VALUES
      (0, 'Die Hard', 1998, 8.2, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 01:00:00')),
      (1, 'The Big Lebowski', 1998, 4.2, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 02:00:00')),
      (2, 'Die Hard', 1998, 4.5, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 05:00:00')),
      (3, 'The Big Lebowski', 1998, 9.9, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 06:30:00')),
      (4, 'Die Hard', 1998, 5.1, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 07:00:00')),
      (5, 'Tree of Life', 2011, 5.6, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 08:00:00')),
      (6, 'Tree of Life', 2011, 4.9, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 09:00:00')),
      (7, 'A Walk in the Clouds', 1995, 3.6, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 12:00:00')),
      (8, 'A Walk in the Clouds', 1995, 6.0, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 15:00:00')),
      (9, 'Super Mario Bros.', 1993, 3.5, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 18:30:00')),
      (10, 'A Walk in the Clouds', 1995, 4.6, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-10 01:00:00'));
  ```

  ```sql
  SELECT title,
      COUNT(*) AS rating_count,
      AVG(rating) AS avg_rating,
      window_start
  FROM TABLE(TUMBLE(TABLE ratings, DESCRIPTOR(ts), INTERVAL '6' HOURS))
  GROUP BY title, window_start;
  ```

  The query output should look like this:

  ![Query output](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/confluentinc/tutorials/master/tumbling-windows/flinksql/img/query-output.png)

</details>

Commit message:

Flink SQL clone instructions (#7)
* fix: add repo clone instructions to Flink tutorials

* fix: improve header font in Flink SQL run instructions

tumbling-windows/flinksql/README.md, after:

<!-- title: How to aggregate over tumbling windows with Flink SQL -->
<!-- description: In this tutorial, learn how to aggregate over tumbling windows with Flink SQL, with step-by-step instructions and supporting code. -->

# How to aggregate over tumbling windows with Flink SQL

Suppose you have time series events in a Kafka topic and wish to calculate statistics on the events grouped into 
fixed-size, non-overlapping, contiguous time intervals called *tumbling windows*. For example, let's say you have a topic
with events that represent movie ratings from viewers over time. In this tutorial, we'll use Flink SQL to count the 
total number of ratings that each movie has received and calculate the average rating over tumbling windows.

## Setup

Because windowed aggregations are calculated on a base table, let's assume the following DDL for our base `ratings` table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE ratings (
    rating_id INT,
    title STRING,
    release_year INT,
    rating DOUBLE,
    ts TIMESTAMP(3),
    -- declare ts as event time attribute and use strictly ascending timestamp watermark strategy
    WATERMARK FOR ts AS ts
);
```

The timestamp is an important attribute since we’ll be modeling the number of ratings that each movie receives over time.
Also, because we are going to aggregate over time windows, we must define a watermark strategy. In this case, we use
strictly ascending timestamps, i.e., any row with a timestamp that is less than or equal to the latest observed event
timestamp is considered late and ignored.

## Compute windowed aggregation

Given the `ratings` table definition above, let’s figure out the rating count and average rating in tumbling 6-hour
intervals using a windowing table-valued function (TVF).

```sql
SELECT title,
    COUNT(*) AS rating_count,
    AVG(rating) AS avg_rating,
    window_start,
    window_end
FROM TABLE(TUMBLE(TABLE ratings, DESCRIPTOR(ts), INTERVAL '6' HOURS))
GROUP BY title, window_start, window_end;
```

## Running the example

You can run the example backing this tutorial in one of three ways: a Flink Table API-based JUnit test, locally with the Flink SQL Client 
against Flink and Kafka running in Docker, or with Confluent Cloud.

<details>
  <summary>Flink Table API-based test</summary>

  ### Prerequisites

  * Java 17, e.g., follow the OpenJDK installation instructions [here](https://openjdk.org/install/) if you don't have Java. 
  * Docker running via [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) or [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

  ### Run the test

  Clone the `confluentinc/tutorials` GitHub repository (if you haven't already) and navigate to the `tutorials` directory:

  ```shell
  git clone git@github.com:confluentinc/tutorials.git
  cd tutorials
  ```

  Run the following command to execute [FlinkSqlTumblingWindowTest#testTumblingWindows](src/test/java/io/confluent/developer/FlinkSqlTumblingWindowTest.java):

  ```plaintext
  ./gradlew clean :tumbling-windows:flinksql:test
  ```

  The test starts Kafka and Schema Registry with [Testcontainers](https://testcontainers.com/), runs the Flink SQL commands
  above against a local Flink `StreamExecutionEnvironment`, and ensures that tumbling window query results are what we expect.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Flink SQL Client CLI</summary>

  ### Prerequisites

  * Docker running via [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) or [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
  * [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/). Ensure that the command `docker compose version` succeeds.

  ### Run the commands

  Clone the `confluentinc/tutorials` GitHub repository (if you haven't already) and navigate to the `tutorials` directory:

  ```shell
  git clone git@github.com:confluentinc/tutorials.git
  cd tutorials
  ```

  Start Flink and Kafka:

  ```shell
  docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose-flinksql.yml up -d
  ```

  Next, open the Flink SQL Client CLI:

  ```shell
  docker exec -it flink-sql-client sql-client.sh
  ```

  Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `ratings` table backed by Kafka running in Docker, populate it with
  test data, and run the tumbling windows query.

  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE ratings (
      rating_id INT,
      title STRING,
      release_year INT,
      rating DOUBLE,
      ts TIMESTAMP(3),
      -- declare ts as event time attribute and use strictly ascending timestamp watermark strategy
      WATERMARK FOR ts AS ts
  ) WITH (
      'connector' = 'kafka',
      'topic' = 'ratings',
      'properties.bootstrap.servers' = 'broker:9092',
      'scan.startup.mode' = 'earliest-offset',
      'key.format' = 'raw',
      'key.fields' = 'rating_id',
      'value.format' = 'avro-confluent',
      'value.avro-confluent.url' = 'http://schema-registry:8081',
      'value.fields-include' = 'EXCEPT_KEY'
  );
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO ratings VALUES
      (0, 'Die Hard', 1998, 8.2, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 01:00:00')),
      (1, 'The Big Lebowski', 1998, 4.2, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 02:00:00')),
      (2, 'Die Hard', 1998, 4.5, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 05:00:00')),
      (3, 'The Big Lebowski', 1998, 9.9, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 06:30:00')),
      (4, 'Die Hard', 1998, 5.1, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 07:00:00')),
      (5, 'Tree of Life', 2011, 5.6, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 08:00:00')),
      (6, 'Tree of Life', 2011, 4.9, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 09:00:00')),
      (7, 'A Walk in the Clouds', 1995, 3.6, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 12:00:00')),
      (8, 'A Walk in the Clouds', 1995, 6.0, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 15:00:00')),
      (9, 'Super Mario Bros.', 1993, 3.5, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 18:30:00')),
      (10, 'A Walk in the Clouds', 1995, 4.6, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-10 01:00:00'));
  ```

  ```sql
  SELECT title,
      COUNT(*) AS rating_count,
      AVG(rating) AS avg_rating,
      window_start,
      window_end
  FROM TABLE(TUMBLE(TABLE ratings, DESCRIPTOR(ts), INTERVAL '6' HOURS))
  GROUP BY title, window_start, window_end;
  ```

  The query output should look like this:

  ```plaintext
                            title         rating_count                     avg_rating            window_start              window_end
                         Die Hard                    2                           6.35 2023-07-09 00:00:00.000 2023-07-09 06:00:00.000
                 The Big Lebowski                    1                            4.2 2023-07-09 00:00:00.000 2023-07-09 06:00:00.000
                         Die Hard                    1                            5.1 2023-07-09 06:00:00.000 2023-07-09 12:00:00.000
                     Tree of Life                    2                           5.25 2023-07-09 06:00:00.000 2023-07-09 12:00:00.000
                 The Big Lebowski                    1                            9.9 2023-07-09 06:00:00.000 2023-07-09 12:00:00.000
             A Walk in the Clouds                    2                            4.8 2023-07-09 12:00:00.000 2023-07-09 18:00:00.000
                Super Mario Bros.                    1                            3.5 2023-07-09 18:00:00.000 2023-07-10 00:00:00.000
  ```

  When you are finished, clean up the containers used for this tutorial by running:

  ```shell
  docker compose -f ./docker/docker-compose-flinksql.yml down
  ```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Confluent Cloud</summary>

  ### Prerequisites

  * A [Confluent Cloud](https://confluent.cloud/signup) account
  * A Flink compute pool created in Confluent Cloud. Follow [this](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/flink/get-started/quick-start-cloud-console.html) quick start to create one.

  ### Run the commands

  In the Confluent Cloud Console, navigate to your environment and then click the `Open SQL Workspace` button for the compute
  pool that you have created.

  Select the default catalog (Confluent Cloud environment) and database (Kafka cluster) to use with the dropdowns at the top right.

  Finally, run following SQL statements to create the `ratings` table, populate it with test data, and run the tumbling windows query.

  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE ratings (
      rating_id INT,
      title STRING,
      release_year INT,
      rating DOUBLE,
      ts TIMESTAMP(3),
      -- declare ts as event time attribute and use strictly ascending timestamp watermark strategy
      WATERMARK FOR ts AS ts
  );
  ```

  ```sql
  INSERT INTO ratings VALUES
      (0, 'Die Hard', 1998, 8.2, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 01:00:00')),
      (1, 'The Big Lebowski', 1998, 4.2, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 02:00:00')),
      (2, 'Die Hard', 1998, 4.5, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 05:00:00')),
      (3, 'The Big Lebowski', 1998, 9.9, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 06:30:00')),
      (4, 'Die Hard', 1998, 5.1, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 07:00:00')),
      (5, 'Tree of Life', 2011, 5.6, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 08:00:00')),
      (6, 'Tree of Life', 2011, 4.9, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 09:00:00')),
      (7, 'A Walk in the Clouds', 1995, 3.6, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 12:00:00')),
      (8, 'A Walk in the Clouds', 1995, 6.0, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 15:00:00')),
      (9, 'Super Mario Bros.', 1993, 3.5, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-09 18:30:00')),
      (10, 'A Walk in the Clouds', 1995, 4.6, TO_TIMESTAMP('2023-07-10 01:00:00'));
  ```

  ```sql
  SELECT title,
      COUNT(*) AS rating_count,
      AVG(rating) AS avg_rating,
      window_start
  FROM TABLE(TUMBLE(TABLE ratings, DESCRIPTOR(ts), INTERVAL '6' HOURS))
  GROUP BY title, window_start;
  ```

  The query output should look like this:

  ![Query output](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/confluentinc/tutorials/master/tumbling-windows/flinksql/img/query-output.png)

</details>
